Davin Sokup Narrator Andrea Jenkins Interviewer The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota February 23, 2017 The Transgender Oral History Project of the Upper Midwest will empower individuals to tell their story, while providing students, historians, and the public with a more rich foundation of primary source material about the transgender community. The project is part of the Tretter Collection at the University of Minnesota. The archive provides a record of GLBT thought, knowledge and culture for current and future generations and is available to students, researchers and members of the public. The Transgender Oral History Project will collect up to 400 hours of oral histories involving 200 to 300 individuals over the next three years. Major efforts will be the recruitment of individuals of all ages and experiences, and documenting the work of The Program in Human Sexuality. This project will be led by Andrea Jenkins, poet, writer, and trans-activist. Andrea brings years of experience working in government, non-profits and LGBT organizations. If you are interested in being involved in this exciting project, please contact Andrea. Andrea Jenkins jenki120@umn.edu (612) 625-4379 Davin Sokup 3 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota 1 Andrea Jenkins -AJ 2 Davin Sokup -DS 3 4 5 AJ: Hello. My name is Andrea Jenkins and I am the oral historian for the Transgender Oral History 6 Project at the University of Minnesota, University Libraries. It’s a part of the Tretter Collection in LGBT 7 Studies. Today is February 23, 2017. We are on the campus of the University of Minnesota, here at 8 Anderson Library, in fact. I’m here today with Davin Sokup. 9 DS: Sokup, yes. 10 AJ: Davin Sokup. How are you today, Davin? 11 DS: I’m good – slightly nervous, but good. 12 AJ: This is your life story, so not much to be nervous about. You know this story better than 13 anybody I suspect. 14 DS: I think so – I should. 15 AJ: But, I am just going to start out by asking you to state your name so that we have the right 16 pronunciation, spell your name, and then tell me what is your gender identity today, your 17 gender assigned at birth, and the pronouns that you use. 18 DS: OK. My name is Davin Sokup. D-a-v-i-n S-o-k-u-p. 19 AJ: OK. 20 DS: Sorry, what was the second part? 21 AJ: Second part is state your gender as you define it today. 22 DS: Oh, OK. I identify as a female to male trans person, trans masculine person. 23 AJ: OK. 24 DS: I was assigned female at birth, or whatever iteration of that. 25 AJ: Yeah. 26 DS: I kind of go with whatever form of assigned female at birth. I grew up as a girl and fully 27 embraced that. 28 AJ: Socialized . . . you said you fully embraced that? 29 DS: I do, yeah. Yeah, I think that was my experience for me personally. 30 AJ: Wow, that’s awesome. Some people don’t embrace that but . . . 31 DS: Yeah, for sure. 32 AJ: It’s really interesting to hear your perspective and hopefully we can talk about that a little bit 33 more. Davin Sokup 4 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, I think I didn’t for a while 1 but it just feels right now. 2 AJ: So, when you say you fully embrace . . . you fully embrace it now? 3 DS: Yeah. 4 AJ: How about when you were being socialized as a young lady? 5 DS: Then, not so much. 6 AJ: OK. 7 DS: Yeah, I never really was into the girly stuff, but in terms of how I was socialized and the 8 expectations I had, or my family had – or whatnot, I think I feel comfortable saying I grew up as 9 a girl and as a woman, even for a minute. 10 AJ: Wow. 11 DS: Just because that’s how I’ve experienced society around me. 12 AJ: Wow. And then, what pronouns do you use? 13 DS: I use he and him. 14 AJ: He and him. Awesome. Where did you grow up? 15 DS: I was born in Northfield, Minnesota, and I grew up there and in Faribault, Minnesota, which is a 16 little south of Northfield. My parents got divorced when I was really young, so my mom lived in 17 Faribault and my dad lived in Northfield. So, I kind of went back and forth. I went to school in 18 Faribault and graduated high school from Faribault High School. 19 AJ: Cool. What is your earliest memory in life? What’s the first thing you remember? 20 DS: Oh, man. I actually remember sitting in the bathtub and having chicken pox. 21 AJ: Oh, wow. 22 DS: I also remember brushing my teeth with my mom, but I don’t remember how old I was. I think 23 that was probably my first . . . 24 AJ: That’s kind of the earliest – yeah. 25 DS: Yeah, I think that that was probably very young. I remember being at my house in Northfield 26 and running around a lot outside but, again, I don’t remember how old I was. 27 AJ: Yeah. Well, chicken pox is usually before five, so that’s pretty early. 28 DS: Yeah, I don’t know why I remember that. 29 AJ: It can happen afterwards, clearly, but I think that most children the average age is about three 30 or four or something like that. 31 DS: Yeah, I just remember looking at my arms and then that’s all I remember. So, yeah, I was pretty 32 young probably. Davin Sokup 5 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: That’s pretty cool. What was childhood like in Northfield? I mean, sort 1 of bouncing back and 2 forth between Northfield and Faribault. 3 DS: Yeah, I spent the summer at my dad’s mostly in Northfield. So, that was really me running 4 around outside with my friends and being told to be home when the sun went down and then 5 being able to do whatever I wanted, kind of. 6 AJ: Really? Being able to do what you wanted once you got home or before? 7 DS: Before. Yeah, Northfield and Faribault are both around . . . at the time, they were smaller, but 8 now they’re around 20,000 people. So, pretty small town. Bigger towns . . . they’re both kind of 9 the bigger towns in the area, but relatively speaking they’re pretty small. 10 AJ: And Northfield is kind of a college-y kind of town. There’s a couple of big schools there. 11 DS: Yeah, there’s Carleton and St. Olaf and the school system there is really great – the public school 12 system. So, that is kind of more the stereotypical liberal town – cute, kind of quant thing, and 13 then Faribault is kind of the opposite – there’s a community college there, or a vo-tech, and . . . I 14 don’t know, it just has this stereotype of being kind of backward. It’s very blue collar so kind of 15 being from both of those, I feel like I’m kind of a mix of both of them. 16 AJ: That’s interesting. A little town and a little gown – you know how they say the town and the 17 gown. 18 DS: Yeah, you could say that. Yeah, so, growing up, I guess, I just remember being outside a lot and 19 playing Legos a lot and my mom got re-married to my step-dad, he’s no longer my step-dad, but 20 he was my step-dad from when I was like three until I moved out when I was 18. 21 AJ: Oh, wow. So, you guys had a pretty long relationship. 22 DS: Yeah, yeah – and he was definitely a Faribault dude. He was pretty . . . he was kind of an asshole 23 but it’s just kind of the way a lot of men there are. 24 AJ: I always think of Faribault as like a trucker kind of town. 25 DS: Yeah, a lot of . . . yeah, it’s just really, really blue collar and people are very proud of that. 26 There’s a lot of pride in that. But, Faribault and Northfield are kind of rivals in that way where 27 everyone in Faribault thinks Northfield is full of entitled yuppies and everyone in Northfield 28 thinks Faribault is ignorant and backward. Neither of those things are necessarily true, but . . . 29 AJ: Right, exactly. 30 DS: But there are different vibes in the different towns. 31 AJ: As a young person were you concerned about your gender? Did you think about it? 32 DS: I think I thought about it when it became clear that I wasn’t how I thought I was. I didn’t really 33 think about my gender because I got to act however I wanted to when I was very young. So, I 34 had . . . my friends when I was very young were boys and we ran around and it didn’t really . . . 35 unless someone was making fun of my friends for having a best friend that was a girl, I never 36 really thought about how I was a girl. Davin Sokup 6 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota 1 AJ: Oh, wow. 2 DS: So, but then as I got older and I had to wear dresses to certain things and that kind of stuff, I 3 would be like, “This isn’t right.” But, my family always just kind of said I was a tomboy or 4 something, so that made sense to me – being a tomboy was fine, until it wasn’t. 5 AJ: Right. 6 DS: Yeah, so I guess the only time I really thought about it was when I was being told that I wasn’t. 7 And then, as I got older – in high school and stuff, I realized that I was very attracted to women. 8 So, I just thought I was gay because there weren’t any trans people when I was in high school, 9 there weren’t any gay people . . . like Ellen DeGeneres was out and . . . 10 AJ: Well, there were gay people, you just didn’t know about them. 11 DS: Yeah, exactly. And, being at that time very much in Faribault most of the time, I was the only 12 person that was out in my high school. 13 AJ: So, you were out in high school? 14 DS: I came out as a . . . I think between my sophomore and junior years of high school. And then my 15 friend, Everett, came out. 16 AJ: As lesbian, gay, bi-sexual? 17 DS: Yeah, as a lesbian. And, my friend, Everett, came out when we were seniors, so it was just the 18 two of us. He was the gay guy and I was the lesbian. And so, we kind of were the only . . . 19 AJ: Wow, did you guys get bullied at all? 20 DS: Yeah, but Everett had a harder time because he was a guy. 21 AJ: Yeah. 22 DS: I got a lot of gross comments from dudes and some verbally mean stuff. 23 AJ: Mean girls. Yeah. 24 DS: Yeah, but Everett got more of the being called a fag in the hallway – like that. 25 AJ: No physical violence though. 26 DS: Umm . . . no, there wasn’t that I can . . . no, there wasn’t any physical violence. There was 27 threatening . . . there were times that I was afraid and times that Everett was afraid, but it never 28 escalated into anything physical. I can only really speak for me, I can’t remember if he ever got . 29 . . 30 AJ: Sure. No, I was just only asking about you. 31 DS: I’m trying to remember, but it feels like so long ago now. But, yeah, it was interesting to be the 32 only out people. We almost got voted best couple because people thought that we were just 33 joking about being gay, that we were actually a couple. Davin Sokup 7 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: 1 Is that right? 2 DS: Yeah, I think it was . . . 3 AJ: That’s hilarious. 4 DS: It was just so uncommon then that I don’t think people knew what to do with it. And, we hung 5 out all the time because, by the time we were seniors, we were like, “Well, this sucks being the 6 only gay people.” There were definitely other gay people but they were not out. 7 AJ: Yes. 8 DS: But, I didn’t know what being trans was when I was in high school. I knew . . . like Everett and I 9 would go up to the 90s on Sunday nights when we were seniors. 10 AJ: 18+, yeah. 11 DS: The 18+ night. So, transgender, to me in high school, meant the drag queens at the 90s, and 12 that’s kind of where that . . . that’s all that was to me, I didn’t understand and I’d never heard of 13 . . . 14 AJ: So, a very sort of stereotypical and . . . some drag performers, drag queens, identify as trans but 15 some don’t. Some are just female impersonators, that’s their job – that’s what they do on the 16 weekends or whatever, or all during the week even, but they don’t necessarily consider 17 themselves to be transgender. 18 DS: Yeah. Yeah, I think that was just . . . I really didn’t know the language about being trans at all. I 19 do remember Everett mentioning one time that he had a friend who had a friend that was 20 transitioning. I don’t remember the language we used about it, it was probably awful – that was 21 transitioning from female to male and was having top surgery. And, I remember having a really 22 awful response to that because it just blew my mind that that even existed and that . . . I was so 23 offended by it and I think that it was terrifying . . . 24 AJ: Internalized transphobia maybe. 25 DS: Yeah, but I didn’t even know what it was, it was just so . . . 26 AJ: Offensive and . . . 27 DS: Yeah. I just remember saying, “That’s disgusting, I can’t believe that anyone would ever do 28 that.” Just . . . yeah, but that was a really hard time. High school was really rough for a lot of 29 reasons. My step-dad was a really awful person and didn’t . . . found out that I came out and 30 basically told me that he didn’t want me around, so I started living with my dad more at that 31 time, because I had a license by then so I could drive back and forth from Northfield to Faribault 32 and still go to school there. But, yeah, he was concerned that I was going to influence Nicole, 33 who is my younger sibling, who is now trans. 34 AJ: Wow. 35 DS: Which is now kind of . . . it runs in the family. Davin Sokup 8 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: A little ironic, I would say. Is that it – just 1 the one sibling? 2 DS: Yeah. So, Nicole is my step-dad and mom’s kid. So, they’re my half-sibling. And, then my dad 3 and step-mom have two kids, so my other two half-siblings. 4 AJ: OK. 5 DS: Nicole is 22 and George and Isabelle are 11 and 13. 6 AJ: Isabelle, you said? 7 DS: Yeah. 8 AJ: OK. So, you’re not as close with those guys. 9 DS: Yeah, they were babies when I was in high school. We’ve gotten closer now that I’m back in 10 Minnesota but I definitely left for college and they were . . . 11 AJ: Where did you go to college? 12 DS: I went to the University of Vermont in Burlington. 13 AJ: Really? So, you went from one rural community to another. I mean, Burlington, I guess, is the 14 biggest city in Vermont, but it’s kind of rural. 15 DS: Yeah, I think it’s like 45,000. Vermont, in general, is pretty rural. But, that was like . . . I 16 remember I definitely . . . I think I was the only person in my high school who went to college 17 outside of the Midwest – maybe another couple people did, but I don’t remember anyone going 18 very far. 19 AJ: And, you went to Faribault High School, right? 20 DS: I went to Faribault – yeah. So, it wasn’t that common for people . . . I graduated in 2005 from 21 high school. It was uncommon for a lot of people to just go to college then . . . or, it wasn’t 22 assumed that everyone was going to college. But, I remember looking at the University of 23 Vermont and searching for colleges that had really active LGBT student clubs and I remember 24 looking at the Free to Be website, which is the name of the club at UVM for students. 25 AJ: Free to Be? 26 DS: Free to Be, yes. 27 AJ: Wow. That’s probably been around since the 1970s, huh? 28 DS: It’s been around, I think . . . 29 AJ: I mean, that name . . . 30 DS: Is pretty old, yeah – it’s pretty old school. I think they were . . . they’ve been around for a while. 31 But, I remember looking at their website and just being like, “I’m going to go there. I want to 32 get the hell out of Minnesota, I want to get the hell out of this town, I want to get away from my 33 family and just be done with all that.” So, I went there not ever visiting the campus and I loved 34 it. I got really lucky. Davin Sokup 9 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota 1 AJ: You call it UVI. 2 DS: UVM. 3 AJ: UVM, I’m sorry. OK. 4 DS: It’s like the Latin . . . Latin for Vermont or something like that. I don’t know why it’s not called 5 UVT, which is the abbreviation for Vermont – everyone just calls it UVM. 6 AJ: Cool. 7 DS: That’s when I first learned about trans people. 8 AJ: Vermont is very socially liberal. 9 DS: Yeah – yeah, it is. 10 AJ: And, social justice minded. 11 DS: It’s kind of a bubble, which is great – and not great at times. But yeah, it was an amazing 12 environment to be a queer student. We kind of . . . as students, I think we had a lot of power 13 which felt so foreign to me. To be able to say something . . . as a queer student, to voice a 14 concern and to have it be listened to felt really new and empowering. So, Free to Be was really 15 active, did a lot of work with getting gender neutral bathrooms on campus, doing a lot of 16 trainings for staff and faculty, a lot of panels in classrooms for other UVM students. 17 AJ: Were you a part of Free to Be? Did you . . .? 18 DS: Yeah, I was a part of Free to Be when I was a freshman and a sophomore and then I was . . . I 19 kind of left for a bit, and then, as a senior, I was president of Free to Be. That whole time, I was 20 on the TIC Committee, which TIC is the Translating Identity Conference, and it was the biggest 21 event that Free to Be put on. It was a student-run free conference about trans identity. So, we 22 did . . . it was two-days one year but it was usually just a one-day conference. 23 AJ: A one-day event. 24 DS: Yeah, that was held at UVM that ranged from Trans 101 for anyone, to Trans 201 would be like 25 an advanced one, and then all the way from that to really specific kind of . . . 26 AJ: Topical . . . 27 DS: Yeah, for trans . . . 28 AJ: What Does It Mean to be in a Relationship? 29 DS: Yeah, exactly. Different panels, different sessions. 30 AJ: I’m pretty sure in Vermont there were not a whole bunch of How to Put on your Make-up 31 panels. 32 DS: That was a struggle with TIC was that it was very trans masculine centered because of the 33 demographic, especially in New England. Our struggle was always providing space for trans 34 feminine people and never really hitting that mark. Davin Sokup 10 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: It’s a struggle. The issues are . . . I mean, certainly similar but very different. 1 For example, 2 yesterday the big news in the national media was transgender students using public restrooms 3 in schools and locker rooms and blah, blah, blah. And, number 45, our new supreme leader, 4 ruler . . . I don’t know, whatever you want to call him – dictator, has rescinded the protections 5 that were offered as guidelines to schools by President Obama, and, (a) I want to kind of get 6 your opinions and thoughts about that, but also (b) personally, is there a struggle for you or 7 other sort of trans masculine identified men and maybe . . . it’s not fair to even ask you to speak 8 for other people, but you . . . I can’t imagine you getting challenged going into the men’s 9 restroom. 10 DS: I don’t and I have noticed that, especially since all this bathroom legislation has really begun. I 11 remember it being an issue when I was first transitioning but I have . . . 12 AJ: And, was it an issue of you going into the women’s restroom or going into the men’s restroom? 13 DS: Well, both. I think there was a period of time where I wasn’t passing or whatever language you 14 want to use, and that was . . . I try to remember that feeling when I’m thinking about all this 15 legislation now because, to be honest, it’s not something I have to think about anymore when 16 I’m thinking about the other men in the restroom. I still think about it every time I use a public 17 restroom, I still think, “Is anyone going to find out? Is anyone going to see which way my feet 18 are pointing and wonder?” But, to be honest, I don’t know why anyone would be concerned 19 about the things that I’m afraid of in the bathroom because no one questions my being trans 20 and so, my being a trans person at this point is more about dealing with invisibility rather than 21 visibility. 22 AJ: Sure, which is a real concern. 23 DS: Right, but in terms of fear, it’s not something that I usually encounter and so I think hearing the 24 news yesterday makes me most afraid for people, for my friends, and especially my younger 25 sibling, Nicole, who is gender queer and uses public restrooms all the time. So, this is kind of big 26 brother instinct of, “Are you OK?” Which is weird, because I’m trans, but I don’t think about 27 myself in that really. 28 AJ: Sure, no – that makes total sense. 29 DS: I don’t really run into that. As a bearded white masculine person, I don’t face a lot of 30 discrimination. 31 AJ: Even in a rural community. I mean, you kind of . . . you’ve got the flannel shirt, the rugged 32 boots. You kind of fit in. 33 DS: Yeah, I do. That’s really complicated. But, just seeing me, there is nothing complicated about it 34 for most people. Yeah, it’s this kind of play between what’s in my head and what’s . . . 35 AJ: Yeah – no, I absolutely . . . I’ve sort of lived through some of the same kinds of things, if you will. 36 So, yeah, there are these sort of different challenges but, for the most part, you use the male 37 restrooms. 38 DS: Yeah. Davin Sokup 11 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: What do you think about gender neutral bathrooms? You guys 1 worked on it UVM. 2 DS: We did, yeah. I think they’re wonderful. I don’t know why they don’t exist everywhere but I 3 guess . . . historically, it makes sense, especially when you hear . . . I’ve had family members talk 4 about their fears of having men go into women’s rooms. That seems to be the base fear about 5 all of this – cis men using the women’s room. I get that, but that’s not what this legislation is 6 targeting. 7 AJ: Right, exactly. 8 DS: That has been illegal and is still illegal. 9 AJ: Yeah, we have laws and if somebody breaks the law, then they need to deal with the 10 consequences of that. 11 DS: Right. 12 AJ: The biggest problem I see in bathrooms is men having sex with other men in bathrooms. 13 DS: That seems to be a problem, yeah. 14 AJ: As far as reported, documented cases of bathroom misconduct, it’s usually guys. But, I digress a 15 little bit. 16 DS: Just men, in general. 17 AJ: Yeah. So, who was the first transgender person you ever met? 18 DS: The first trans person I ever met that I remember meeting, was my friend, Ryan. At the time, I 19 didn’t even know he was trans, because, again, I went to college not knowing what that was. 20 And so, I went to my first Free to Be meeting and he was an officer in the club at that point, I 21 forget what officer. Anyway, he started speaking and had been on T at that point for a bit. 22 Everyone was really excited about his voice. 23 AJ: Oh, wow – OK. 24 DS: And, I just thought he was a gay guy because he sounded like a gay guy to me. 25 AJ: Right. 26 DS: So, everyone kind of was freaking out about that and I remember talking to my friend, Ashley, 27 and being like, “Why is everyone so excited about his voice?” And then she was like, “Oh, Christ, 28 are you serious?” And then she proceeded to tell me . . . we were back in the dorms at that 29 point. I lived in gay housing on campus, which was really cool. 30 AJ: What? Vermont had . . . 31 DS: I know, as a freshman. Again, this is totally why I applied to this college and I got into the LGBT 32 housing and we did different programming as a group of people that lived together, which was 33 cool. 34 AJ: Was it like watched To Wong Fu, Julie Newmar or . . .? Davin Sokup 12 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, actually we did watch movies . . . what did we . . . God, I can’t remember. 1 We went to Six 2 Flags for Gay Day. We did a bunch of family stuff, it was fun. But, I remember her telling me 3 about Ryan and about a couple of other trans people in the club and then me just . . . that was 4 when I was like, “Oh, shit, that’s really cool.” And, then it all went from there. But, Ryan is the 5 first trans person I remember meeting and knowing and finally having the language for talking 6 about that. 7 AJ: Did you . . . so, when did you first realize you were trans? 8 DS: Probably in that moment. 9 AJ: In that moment, yeah. Something clicked . . . I mean, I hear this from so many people. They 10 meet somebody and it’s like . . . it’s a mirror almost sometimes. 11 DS: Yeah, I just got chills about that. Yeah, it was. I think I was really scared and kind of didn’t let 12 myself think about it for a few months, but just being in that community, living in that 13 community, going to the club every week, for once all my friends were queer. It was incredibly 14 supportive and so it didn’t . . . it was kind of this bubble, in a way. My family was not cool about 15 it at first, but it didn’t matter. 16 AJ: You read my mind, I was just about to ask you how was the coming out to your family. 17 DS: Yeah, it was weird. I had already come out to them once so they were kind of like, (a) I have no 18 idea what you’re talking about; and (b), can’t you just be gay like you already . . . they had a hard 19 time with that too. So, it was . . . but, again . . . 20 AJ: But, you had your chosen family. 21 DS: Yeah, and so that was the first time I’d ever experienced that so I think it was . . . I was able to 22 be really independent in that way and really kind of lean on my new family – these people 23 around me that not only didn’t care that I was trans, but that were very supportive. 24 AJ: Supportive of it, right – embracing. 25 DS: Yeah, yeah. So, I think the hardest part was me getting over that, me getting over the . . . just 26 how bizarre it was to me at first. 27 AJ: Sure. 28 DS: Not knowing what it even was, have all the internalized crap . . . 29 AJ: What’s life like with your family now? 30 DS: My dad and step-mom are cool with it. 31 AJ: You just mentioned to me you kind of just moved back. 32 DS: Yeah, I moved back. I’ve been traveling around . . . 33 AJ: So, do you live with your folks now? Davin Sokup 13 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, I live . . . when I’m in town, in Northfield, I live in my dad’s basement, 1 basically, until I 2 move up here in May. 3 AJ: To Minneapolis. 4 DS: Yeah. So, I’ve mostly been working and traveling around, but the times that I’m back, I stay with 5 him and my step-mom and my little brother and sister. We don’t really talk about it. For a long 6 time, we didn’t talk about it because it was uncomfortable, and now we don’t talk about it 7 because it doesn’t really come up. 8 AJ: It doesn’t really matter. 9 DS: But, yeah, for a while it was not good. I remember . . . it’s kind of one of those things again, with 10 this privilege of passing where as soon as I was on T for long enough, a lot of my family came 11 around because they then could place me . . . 12 AJ: They could see – visually. 13 DS: Yeah, and whether it made sense because it made them more comfortable, or whether it made 14 sense because they saw me for who I am, that’s not always clear – and maybe it’s both. But, I 15 remember my dad saying to me after I had been on T for a couple of years at that point and 16 things were still weird. But, I would go home for the holidays and stuff and I remember him 17 saying to me, “None of this made sense to me until I could see how happy you are now and how 18 unhappy you used to be.” 19 AJ: Oh, my God, I just got emotional right now. 20 DS: So, that was a changing moment for him, just seeing that it wasn’t about being . . . it wasn’t 21 about gender any more at that point, it was about whether or not I was happy. 22 AJ: My life, right – this is who I am, I’m being myself. 23 DS: Yeah, so that was really powerful. And, since then I think it’s been easier for him – it was about . 24 . . I think it just didn’t make sense. And then for my mom, we don’t talk about it. But, she . . . 25 we have a really complicated history and so there is this . . . now, over . . . there’s kind of this 26 overall agreement that we love each other unconditionally because of the mistakes that she’s 27 made and the kind of things that I’ve given her to deal with – that no matter what, she’s going 28 to love me. She’s basically like, “As long as you aren’t thrown in prison or aren’t a bad person, 29 I’ll love you unconditionally.” 30 AJ: Yeah. 31 DS: But, pronouns still sometimes get messed up. She was dating someone at some point that 32 didn’t know that I . . . she told him, at the time, that she had two daughters and I had been on T, 33 at that point, for about five years. So, I remember one Christmas actually hiding in her bedroom 34 because he came over and didn’t know . . . wouldn’t know who I was because she had old 35 pictures on the wall. 36 AJ: Right. Davin Sokup 14 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: So, it’s kind of . . . it’s been rocky, but 1 it’s just . . . 2 AJ: Yeah, that’s a tough one. 3 DS: Yeah, I don’t pretend to know what it’s like to be a parent of a trans person, but I was really 4 pissed off about that. But, in terms of her coming to where she’s at now, it’s kind of just . . . I let 5 a lot of it slide. 6 AJ: But, you guys can communicate, you can talk. 7 DS: Yeah. And so, it’s . . . again, it’s this kind of unspoken thing about I don’t ever doubt her 8 specifically being like, “I can’t handle this, I don’t ever want to see you again.” 9 AJ: Right. 10 DS: But, it can’t also be something that we talk about where she’s like, “How can I understand this?” 11 It’s just kind of like . . . 12 AJ: It is what it is. 13 DS: Yes. 14 AJ: And, I’m just going to go along with it and not really question it very much. 15 DS: And her mom, my grandmother, we’ve never had a conversation about it but all of a sudden, 16 she just started writing Davin on my Christmas cards. 17 AJ: Really? Score. 18 DS: Yeah, right. But, it’s this thing where I’m like, “Why can’t we talk about it?’ I would love to talk 19 about it. 20 AJ: Well, maybe they can watch this video one of these days. 21 DS: Maybe someday. 22 AJ: How did you come to the name Davin? 23 DS: babynames.com. 24 AJ: babynames.com. 25 DS: Which a lot of trans people at the time who were coming out were using. 26 AJ: Is that right? I haven’t heard this before. 27 DS: Yeah, at least where I was it was fun to think about picking your own name. So, you would just 28 go online and look at names. I remember choosing Davin out of a list of names that I had. It 29 means bright, like the stars and it’s Scandinavian and so that felt like it meant something. 30 AJ: Culturally. 31 DS: Yeah. It’s not a name I would pick now, but it’s mine and so I love it. Davin Sokup 15 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota 1 AJ: It’s your name. 2 DS: I know, but do you ever think about that. I sometimes think . . . so, I picked my name over 10 3 years ago at this point. If I were to come out now, Davin wouldn’t even be on the short list. 4 AJ: Really? 5 DS: Yeah, which is so strange to think about. 6 AJ: Well, you know, so . . . you bring up an interesting point because it’s not something that you 7 really get a lot of time to think about, right. 8 DS: That’s true. 9 AJ: Because up until that point, you’re just like I have to become this other gender and you’re not 10 thinking about all the things that that entails, it’s just like this . . . and then, when you do it, it’s 11 like, “Oh, I’ve got to introduce myself to people.” 12 DS: Exactly. At the time, I didn’t think about how my name sounds like Devin and it sounds like 13 Gavin and I’m literally going to be called Devin or Gavin when people hear my name forever. 14 And, that’s fine. And then when people see my name, they usually assume that it’s misspelled 15 and that my name is David. So, then, on the phone I’m always David to other people, which is 16 also . . . but, yeah, you’re right. At the time, I was just like, “This is it.” I didn’t think about how 17 every other trans masculine person I knew at the time had a name that sounded like Davin, 18 pretty much – like Aidan and Cayden and Jayden and . . . 19 AJ: Hayden. 20 DS: All of them. So, now, to me, it’s this marker of when I came out because my name sounds like 21 most other trans men. 22 AJ: Wow, that’s interesting. So, you think trans names have sort of a . . . 23 DS: An evolution. 24 AJ: An evolution or a time-stamp or expiration date or something? 25 DS: They do, yeah. Because how many Francis’ are there now in the last year? It’s really interesting 26 to me to see the trend of names from when people come out. 27 AJ: Yeah, there was a bunch of -lers: Tyler, Skyler . . . 28 DS: Yes – that was after me. That was the . . . yeah, Skyler, Tyler. Oh, there are so many names, but 29 it’s this kind of trend, which again is the funny thing about babynames.com because they also 30 line up with popular baby names at the time: Aidan, at the time, everyone was choosing the 31 name Aidan and Ethan, that was the most popular baby name at the time. 32 AJ: Is that right? I know so many trans men named Ethan. 33 DS: Right. 34 AJ: At least five. Davin Sokup 16 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, exactly. So, yeah, I think if I were to choose my name now it probably 1 wouldn’t be Davin, 2 but it’s my name and I love it for that reason. 3 AJ: That’s an interesting story, thank you. 4 DS: Yeah, yeah . . . I think I wanted to pick a family name but I felt like that was going to be too hard 5 for my family. 6 AJ: Too controversial. Yeah. Talk to me a little bit, and only to the extent that you feel comfortable, 7 Davin, and you’ve already named some medical interventions, but what medical steps have you 8 taken towards transition to date? 9 DS: I have been on T for just over 10 years, I just had my 10-year T anniversary, which made me feel 10 really old. 11 AJ: Wow – well, wait until you hit the 25-year mark and come back and tell me how you feel then. 12 DS: I guess it’s relative, right. And then, I had top surgery in 2010 – yeah, the spring of 2010, when I 13 was a senior in college. And, that’s it. 14 AJ: Wow. Any thoughts or plans for any additional intervening on this journey called gender? 15 DS: I don’t think so. I think I’m . . . right now, I can’t afford anything else. Top surgery was enough 16 of a dent. 17 AJ: Speaking of afford, what work do you do? 18 DS: Mostly, so far, I’ve been doing art handling and preparer work. So, installing deinstalling 19 exhibitions. 20 AJ: Art handling? 21 DS: Yes. So, putting up shows at museums and galleries. I’ve been doing that since a little bit before 22 I graduated UVM. And so, that’s . . . but, those jobs are hard to find and they don’t pay very 23 well. 24 AJ: I was just going to ask, does that pay well? 25 DS: No. So, I’ve waited tables . . . I’ve almost always had a job in the restaurant industry as either a 26 part-time or full-time supplemental income, or working through college or working through high 27 school. I actually worked at McDonalds in high school for four years because it was where you 28 worked if you were 14 – it was the only place you could work when you were 14. So, I’ve had a 29 job in the restaurant industry usually . . . for the most part, since I was 14. And then, I’ve also 30 been doing, the last few years I’ve been doing building work – like woodworking and furniture 31 building and some interior work. So, that’s been really fun. I’m trying to go more in that 32 direction. Again, it doesn’t pay very well but that’s not a big concern of mine. 33 AJ: Well, I don’t know – if you re-store hardwood floors and that kind of stuff, then actually it pays 34 pretty decent. Davin Sokup 17 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, well I’ve always done it, again, as kind of a supplemental income thing. 1 So, I think if I were 2 to get more full-time stuff I’d probably be better . . . 3 AJ: Has your gender identity every impacted your career? Or, do you feel like it impacts your career 4 at this point in time? 5 DS: I think the art handling jobs and the building jobs are very masculine places, typically. They’re 6 most men, mostly cis men, and so that has been interesting to be a trans person in that setting. 7 Most people assume that I’m a gay guy usually. So, it’s always interesting to go from that to 8 eventually coming out as trans, sometimes – but sometimes not, and kind of navigating that 9 when do you come out to co-workers kind of thing is so bizarre to me, because it’s relevant. 10 AJ: So, because you have all your documentation and all of that stuff is up-to-date? 11 DS: Yeah. My name is changed legally, my gender marker is . . . or my sex marker is changed but not 12 on my birth certificate. I need to do that. I’ve been reluctant . . . 13 AJ: But, when do you present your birth certificate to anyone other than to go to the bathroom 14 nowadays? 15 DS: Yeah, I remember when I changed my name I was like, “I don’t want to change my birth 16 certificate.” But, I didn’t think about it at the time – that maybe it would be an issue. 17 AJ: Right. 18 DS: So, I don’t know – I don’t know if I’ll change it. My license and my passport say male . . . but 19 yeah, it’s weird. It’s been this process, I think, of becoming, again, kind of this invisible person. 20 AJ: Wow, that’s interesting because . . . so, what is invisible is your sort of trans-ness, or your trans 21 identity, but you brought up something and I’m like, “Wow, that’s interesting,” that people 22 sometimes receive you as a gay man. 23 DS: Yeah, most of the time. 24 AJ: And, are you . . . so, you experience homophobia? Or do you experience homophobia, I don’t 25 know? Maybe they see you as a gay man and they want to get fashion advice, I don’t know. 26 DS: Yeah, it’s weird. In certain settings, I think it makes cis men uncomfortable – depending on the 27 men that I’m around, honestly. 28 AJ: Right. 29 DS: Whether or not I feel like I’m being too effeminate – which is not very effeminate. It’s been 30 interesting being back home in a rural setting and noticing that how I kind of . . . if I ever mute 31 myself in a way, or kind of downplay how . . . or just how I don’t think about how I present my 32 gender – if it’s a place where . . . like when I was in Chicago, where it just didn’t really matter as 33 much. And, not that it matters, it doesn’t, but it’s something that I’m aware of. 34 AJ: Yeah, it’s a conscious . . . Davin Sokup 18 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota DS: Yeah, so, I think the interesting part of being around cis men, and them 1 assuming that I’m a gay 2 guy, is then talking about a woman I might be dating or . . . 3 AJ: Oh, so then you really throw them off. 4 DS: And, then it’s assumed that I’m just not out yet, which is hilarious because I’ve come out so 5 many times. 6 AJ: Wow. 7 DS: And, then it’s the issue of being even more invisible if I’m walking down the street with a 8 girlfriend and being perceived as either straight and cis or gay and my girlfriend has not idea. Do 9 you know what I mean? 10 AJ: Yeah, I know. 11 DS: It’s so weird. 12 AJ: People are just like, “That poor girl, she doesn’t know.” 13 DS: Yeah, but she definitely knows and so it’s like this . . . I don’t want to be stealth, but I am in the 14 sense of an everyday experience. I don’t know . . . I think that’s one of the benefits of having a 15 community or living in a city is that it’s . . . I can be around, and with, other queer people most 16 of the time so it’s not this thing where I have to feel like where I’m saying, “No, I do know 17 myself, you just don’t know me.” 18 AJ: You just don’t know me – right. 19 DS: So, that’s the interesting part. 20 AJ: Well, you’ll be living here in the Cities soon. 21 DS: Soon, yes. 22 AJ: Boy, so you talked a little bit about romance . . . you’re just jumping right into my questions, 23 which I love. I absolutely love this. So, I get the sense that you date women, you’ve said it 24 multiple times – you love women, you date . . . 25 DS: Yeah, but I’ve also dated trans men. 26 AJ: Have you, OK. So, what is your sexual orientation? How would you define your sexual 27 orientation? 28 DS: I don’t really know, I just say that I’m queer. 29 AJ: Queer, yeah. 30 DS: I’ve dated women mostly. And, by women, I just mean feminine people or people who identify 31 as women, I guess. But then, when it comes to trans people, it gets . . . like, if I’m saying I date 32 women, who does that exclude and who does it include? So, it’s not really this rigid thing, it’s 33 just a kind of easy language to use, I guess. But, maybe it’s . . . I don’t know, I’m constantly like, 34 “Am I using the right language?” “Am I leaving people out by using this language?” Language is Davin Sokup 19 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota very strange to me, especially when it comes to dating because I’ve also 1 dated trans people and 2 so it’s not . . . I’ve also dated trans masculine people, so using the term women doesn’t . . . 3 AJ: Yeah, that doesn’t include trans masculine guys. 4 DS: Right – at all. But, I’ve never really had . . . like the only people I’ve had long-term relationships 5 with are people who have identified as women, so I don’t really know how, then, to situate my 6 sexual identity because it kind of goes all over the place and it really depends on the 7 relationship. 8 AJ: Has it been complicated by, or has it shifted . . . complicated is not the right word, but has it 9 shifted at all by your coming out as trans? I know you stated earlier on that you really . . . and 10 you came out in high school as loving women. 11 DS: I was a huge dyke in high school. 12 AJ: As a big ol’ dyke. 13 DS: Yes, definitely. And, I do . . . like there are parts of me that still miss that identity very much. I 14 really identified with that, but it was . . . and, it was connected to gender. I felt like a butch dyke 15 and that was exciting because it was . . . at least, where I was from . . . 16 AJ: It was transgressing in transgressing gender norms. 17 DS: Right, and now I’m like, “Oh, that was kind . . . this kind of trans identity, in a way, at the time.” 18 But, obviously, I had no language for that. But, it was centered around who I was attracted to 19 and so that was pretty rigid for me as a younger person, and is now not quite as rigid. That’s 20 just been my experience – it has ended up not being as rigid through dating or who I’m sexually 21 active with or who I’m in love with. So, it’s kind of become less rigid as I get older. 22 AJ: Yeah, well – that’s awesome. Have you worked or volunteered at any other LGBT organizations 23 beyond Free to Be? 24 DS: Yes. Well, just in Vermont mostly. I was on the board of Outright Vermont which is an amazing 25 organization. 26 AJ: Yeah, in Burlington? 27 DS: Yeah, and I loved that. They serve all of Vermont but they’re based in Burlington. 28 AJ: Right. 29 DS: And, just for LGBT youth, which was really fun and exciting. 30 AJ: It’s like in a house, a rec center? 31 DS: Yeah, it’s an old community center, kind of. Yeah. So, that’s been really great. They do a camp 32 every summer and so last summer I volunteered at the camp and . . . 33 AJ: Camp Trans or whatever? 34 DS: It’s Camp Outright. Davin Sokup 20 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: Camp 1 Outright, yeah. 2 DS: It’s for any LGB identity . . . LGBTQ . . . 3 AJ: LGBTQI . . . 4 DS: Yeah. So, that’s been really fun and then I really want to get involved when I move here. I 5 wasn’t that involved in Chicago. I felt really overwhelmed most of the time when I was in 6 Chicago. 7 AJ: It’s overwhelming, it’s a big town. 8 DS: Yeah, and I was working constantly so my volunteering really went down the tubes there. 9 AJ: But, you’ve never been trans for pay – you’ve never had a professional job as a trans person or a 10 gay person? 11 DS: No, I haven’t – no. 12 AJ: Wow. What do you think the relationship is between the L, the G, the B, and the T and the Q 13 and the I, I guess? Mostly the LGB, because that’s where there seems to be the most conflict 14 with trans identities and the broader LGB community. 15 DS: Do you mean what do I think of those of that community, that relationship with trans people? 16 AJ: Yes, and I guess to just try to be a little bit more clear, like . . . the acronym certainly has been 17 hooked together, but I’m not always sure if the work is always done in unison and we’re facing a 18 huge opportunity right now where trans youth and trans community are being targeted and will 19 gay and lesbian and bisexual people stand up? 20 DS: Absolutely. 21 AJ: And, I think there is a debate about should they even. Are gender issues LGB issues? I don’t 22 know. 23 DS: I think that they are and I think that they absolutely should stand up. I think that . . . but that’s, 24 in my opinion, that’s why the word queer is wonderful and I know not everyone agrees with 25 that. I think that it is a shared experience of feeling like at some point, and again – this is 26 coming from my own experiences obviously, that at some point you realize that you’re not like 27 everyone else around you – most of the time, everyone else around you, and that feeling of 28 being the only one and having to go out and actually find your community. I don’t think that 29 that’s exclusive to any part of the acronym and I think that when people remember that, then 30 the rights of trans people become the concern of other gay and lesbian and bisexual people 31 because it’s about continuing the work that makes you feel like you’re not alone. I think that 32 was the most important thing to me when I was involved and when I am involved in queer 33 groups or clubs or organizations is that this . . . this really strong need, in my opinion, to support 34 each other in the ways that make us different from everybody else, regardless if it’s who you go 35 to bed with or who you love or who you are as a person, who you are in your own mind. Those 36 things exist for everybody and for queer people, they make us different. So, I really don’t Davin Sokup 21 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota understand the argument . . . I don’t personally understand the argument 1 for trans people to 2 kind of separate from other queer folks, it just doesn’t make any sense to me. 3 AJ: Sure. No, I get it. 4 DS: I totally get that a lot of LGB people don’t understand why it’s their fight to stick up for trans 5 folks. I think it’s more important to work on that and kind of working on the opinion that we 6 don’t also belong to this larger community than it is to work on subtracting ourselves from it 7 and having it be . . . I think it’s just all linked so intensely. 8 AJ: Yeah. 9 DS: I don’t think becoming almost a separatist group within the larger community is . . . 10 AJ: It makes more sense. Wow. We’re just about at the end. Where do you think the trans 11 community is going to be 50 years from now . . . if you can dust off your crystal ball? And, is 12 there anything that I haven’t asked you that you think is really critical for you to say? 13 DS: Fifty years from now . . . I have no idea. I can’t . . . when I came out in 2005, which was not that 14 long ago, things were so different in terms of where . . . even nationally speaking, in terms of 15 visibility especially. 16 AJ: Yeah. 17 DS: Having other trans people to look to as mentors, it’s kind of like night and day that this exists, 18 that we can . . . 19 AJ: And, that’s only 12 years to now 2017. 20 DS: I mean, that we’re sitting in this room at the University of Minnesota and talking about all of 21 this. It’s so bizarre to me when I think about that in 2005 – not that it wasn’t happening, not 22 that trans histories weren’t being talked about or valued, but that it’s now . . . 23 AJ: It was different. 24 DS: The value is different, I think. So, in terms of 50 years, I don’t know. I hope that people who are 25 not trans care a lot less about the politics of being trans. If it goes in any direction, I hope that 26 people respect trans identity more than they do now – non-trans people, without questioning it 27 – just that it’s this difference that is important to recognize but is also important to respect. This 28 idea that people have the right to question whether or not our lives are legitimate is something I 29 hope in 50 years doesn’t exist. 30 AJ: Wow, beautifully stated. 31 DS: What’s that? 32 AJ: I said, “beautifully stated.” 33 DS: Thanks. I have no idea though in 50 years what trans identity is going to look like in 50 years, 34 that’s going to be really interesting. Davin Sokup 22 The Transgender Oral History Project Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies University of Minnesota AJ: Yeah, because kids are coming out at five years old now and they’re on hormone 1 blockers and 2 they will not experience this whole sort of waiting until adulthood to transition. 3 DS: Yeah. 4 AJ: They’re transitioning in 1st grade, which means their lives are going to be completely different 5 from the majority of trans people in my age group – we’re dinosaurs. 6 DS: Yeah, I mean . . . I’m not that old but just in terms of how trans-ness is spoken about now, it’s 7 like I feel like I don’t even have the language a lot of the time that’s now being used, just 8 because of when I was coming out and when I was really active in these kind of student groups 9 where you talk about this stuff a lot. That language isn’t even language that’s used any more – 10 or some of it is considered old school. For me, identifying as an FTM person is like not even 11 language that a lot of trans masculine people even use anymore. It’s very interesting to see 12 what has happened to language. Hopefully, I’ll still feel like I can talk about it in 50 years 13 without sounding ancient. 14 AJ: Oh, wow. 15 DS: I guess I’ll be like 80 then, so I will be ancient – but, in a good way, I’m excited to be 80. 16 AJ: Yeah, absolutely. Hey, listen, Davin, I really appreciate this opportunity to sit and chat with you 17 and get to know you better, but more importantly to document part of your story – this is 18 certainly not your entire life story, but I appreciate you being willing to share. Anything you 19 want to leave us with? Some gem that’s going to help inspire the next generation of young 20 gender diverse people growing into their own? 21 DS: Oh, man. I don’t know. I really think, for me, what was most important to know was that I 22 wasn’t alone and that when I was the only one, literally, that that wasn’t going to always be that 23 way. I think it’s a lot easier now with the internet and social media and all these things, but I still 24 think this isolating feeling that queer people have is something I wish I could, and hope to aid in, 25 obliterating. That’s the crappiest feeling, in my opinion. But, thank you so much for asking me 26 to do this. I really appreciate it. 27 AJ: No problem. Thank you for being willing, I appreciate it. Until we meet again, my friend. 28 DS: Yeah, right. 29 AJ: Peace.
